DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx.svg?token=eHg7Zp5zdDDJfTjY8ejq&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx)

# Developing AWSX components

## Prerequisites

Essentials:

- NodeJS
- Go
- Make

For building the SDKs:

- Dotnet
- Python

## Project Structure

- `awsx`: the provider, written in Typescript
- `awsx-classic`: the original typescript-only version of AWSX
- `examples`: multi-lang examples which are executed as acceptance tests
- `examples-classic`: examples of aws-classic (no longer run as acceptance tests)
- `schemagen`: Go program for generating the schema and SDKs
- `sdk`: Generated SDKs in each language

## Development Workflow

1. The schema is generated by schemagen. The entry point is `schemagen/pkg/gen/schema.go`.
1. Run `make schema` to generate the `awsx/schema.json` and provider types.
1. Run `make build_sdks` to generate all SDKs in `sdk` from the `awsx/schema.json`.
1. Run `make provider` to auto-generate code in `awsx/schema-types.ts` for the provider from the schema then compile the code.
1. Implement provider resources. The entry point for provider resources is `awsx/resources.ts`.

## Testing Workflow

Before testing, make sure you are authenticated with Pulumi and AWS in your terminal.

For running Typescript examples locally:

1. `make install_provider install_nodejs_sdk` - prep provider and SDK for local use
1. `cd examples/YOUR_EXAMPLE`
1. `yarn && yarn link @pulumi/awsx` - install dependencies, but use local version of
1. `PATH=~/YOUR_DEV_FOLDER/pulumi-awsx/bin/:$PATH pulumi up`

Commit message:

Improve local and CI build flow (#852)
* Move provider build to file targets

- Skip TS declaration output to avoid confusion in wildcards.
- Always test and lint on provider target.
- Make formatting quieter.

* Rework SDK targets

* Expand the development docs

* Ensure provider in on the path through make

Avoid assuming a user has a specific PATH configured.

Remove provider install step in CI

* Make provider build the local binary

* Order workflow jobs

* Rework CI artefacts & acceptance tests

- Build into bin - keep obj for intermediate binaries.
- Upload whole bin as an asset to be restored.
- Just restore bin and tell make it's up-to-date.
- Upload dist on acceptance tests for debugging.

* Fix lint_classic naming

* Avoid rebuild bins for SDK build

Use --touch instead of -o to skip build steps.

* Build dist in linting branch

Avoid slowing down the critical path. This is just in case we want to check what the dist will look like - we don't actually use it.

* Make SDK builds target bin directory

... except go which has no artifacts, so is actually phony.

- Make nuget source addition happen in make.
- Trigger SDK install where needed before tests in make.

* Fix typo in make test_dotnet deps

- Make ordering consistent.
- Fix lint node version as it's not in a matrix

* Combine sdk build and test steps

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx.svg?token=eHg7Zp5zdDDJfTjY8ejq&branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx)

# Developing AWSX components

## Prerequisites

Essentials:

- NodeJS
- Go
- Make

For building the SDKs:

- Dotnet
- Python

## Project Structure

- `awsx`: the provider, written in Typescript
- `awsx-classic`: the original typescript-only version of AWSX
- `examples`: multi-lang examples which are executed as acceptance tests
- `examples-classic`: examples of aws-classic (no longer run as acceptance tests)
- `schemagen`: Go program for generating the schema and SDKs
- `sdk`: Generated SDKs in each language

## Development Workflow

### Common Targets

- `make` lints, builds and runs unit tests
- `make dev` tests and build the provider and builds only the nodejs SDK
- `make build` tests and build the provider and all SDKS
- `make clean` removes all build artifacts ready for a clean build
- `make test` runs all acceptance tests
- `make test Test=TEST_NAME` runs a single test

### Implementing New Components

The schema (`awsx/schema.json`) is generated by schemagen. The entry point is `schemagen/pkg/gen/schema.go`. Amend the go code to generate the schema for the component with its inputs, outputs and any relevant types. Run `make schema` to test your changes.

From the `awsx/schema.json` we generate provider types (`awsx/schema-types.ts`) which describe the interfaces that the provider must implement. Running `make provider` will automatically re-generate this as needed.

To implement a new provider resource:

1. Define a class for your resource in an appropriate folder which:

    - Inherits from the appropriate schema-types abstract class
    - Uses the schema-types 'Args' object for the constructor args
    - Sets all provider output members in the constructor

2. Register the new component implementation in `awsx/resources.ts`.

The SDKs are also generated from the `awsx/schema.json` using the `schemagen` program. This can be done by calling `make build`.

## Testing Workflow

Before testing, make sure you are authenticated with Pulumi and AWS in your terminal.

For running Typescript examples locally:

1. `make install_provider install_nodejs_sdk` - prep provider and SDK for local use
1. `cd examples/YOUR_EXAMPLE`
1. `yarn && yarn link @pulumi/awsx` - install dependencies, but use local version of
1. `PATH=~/YOUR_DEV_FOLDER/pulumi-awsx/bin/:$PATH pulumi up`
