nodejs/awsx/apigateway/README.md, before:

# Pulumi API Gateway Components

Pulumi's API for simplifying working with [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/). The API currently provides ways to define routes that accepts and forwards traffic to a specified destination. A route is a publicly accessible URI that supports the defined HTTP methods and responds according to the route definition.

## Defining an Endpoint

To define an endpoint you will need to specify a route. You can also define the stage name (else it will default to "stage"). A `stage` is an addressable instance of the Rest API.

### Routes

The destination is determined by the route, which can be an [Event Handler Route](#Event-Handler-Route), a [Static Route](#Static-Route), an [Integration Route](#Integration-Route) or a [Raw Data Route](#Raw-Data-Route).

#### Event Handler Route

An Event Handler Route is a route that will map to a [Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/). You will need to specify the path, method and the Lambda. Pulumi allows you to define the Lambda inline with your application code and provisions the appropriate permissions on your behalf so that API Gateway can communicate with your Lambda.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: async (event) => {
            return {
                statusCode: 200,
                body: "hello",
            };
        },
    }],
})
```

A complete example can be found [here](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/blob/master/nodejs/awsx/examples/api/index.ts).

You can also link a route to an existing Lambda using `aws.lambda.Function.get`.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: aws.lambda.Function.get("example", "your_lambda_id"),
    }],
})
```

Additionally, you can control the Lambda that is created by calling `new aws.lambda.CallbackFunction`.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: new aws.lambda.CallbackFunction("test", {
            memorySize: 256,
            callback: async (event) => {
                return {
                    statusCode: 200,
                    body: "<h1>Hello world!</h1>",
                };
            },
        }),
    }],
})
```

#### Static Route

A Static Route is a route that will map to static content in files/directories. You will need to define the local path and then the files (and subdirectories) will be uploaded into S3 objects. If the local path points to a file, you can specify the content-type. Else, the content types for all files in a directory are inferred.

By default, any request on directory will serve index.html. This behavior can be disabled by setting the index field to false.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
    }],
})
```

A complete example can be found [here](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/blob/master/nodejs/awsx/examples/api/index.ts).

#### Integration Route

[TODO]

#### Raw Data Route

[TODO]

### Request Validation

API Gateway can perform basic validations against request parameters, a request payload or both. When a validation fails, a 400 error is returned immediately.

#### Validators

Validators can be assigned at the API level or at the method level. The validators defined at a method level override any validator set at the API level.

You must specify one of the following validators:

* "ALL" - validate both the request body and request parameters
* "BODY_ONLY" - validate only the request body
* "PARAMS_ONLY" - validate only the request parameters

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
        requestValidator: "PARAMS_ONLY",
    }],
    requestValidator: "ALL",
})
```

#### Request Parameters

For each required request parameter, you must define the name and where the parameter is expected (i.e. "path", "query", or "header").

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
        requestValidator: "PARAMS_ONLY",
        requiredParams: [{
            name: "key",
            in: "query",
        }]
    }],
})
```

#### Request Body

[TODO]

### Swagger String

You can use a OpenAPI specification that is in string form to initialize the API Gateway. This in a way is an escape hatch for implementing featured not yet supported by Pulumi. You must manually provide permission for any route targets to be invoked by API Gateway when using this option.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

const swaggerSpec = {
    swagger: "2.0",
    info: { title: "api", version: "1.0" },
    ...
};

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    swaggerString: JSON.stringify(swaggerSpec),
    stageName: "dev",
})
```

Commit message:

remove todo, add note about request body validation

nodejs/awsx/apigateway/README.md, after:

# Pulumi API Gateway Components

Pulumi's API for simplifying working with [API Gateway](https://aws.amazon.com/api-gateway/). The API currently provides ways to define routes that accepts and forwards traffic to a specified destination. A route is a publicly accessible URI that supports the defined HTTP methods and responds according to the route definition.

## Defining an Endpoint

To define an endpoint you will need to specify a route. You can also define the stage name (else it will default to "stage"). A `stage` is an addressable instance of the Rest API.

### Routes

The destination is determined by the route, which can be an [Event Handler Route](#Event-Handler-Route), a [Static Route](#Static-Route), an [Integration Route](#Integration-Route) or a [Raw Data Route](#Raw-Data-Route).

#### Event Handler Route

An Event Handler Route is a route that will map to a [Lambda](https://aws.amazon.com/lambda/). You will need to specify the path, method and the Lambda. Pulumi allows you to define the Lambda inline with your application code and provisions the appropriate permissions on your behalf so that API Gateway can communicate with your Lambda.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: async (event) => {
            return {
                statusCode: 200,
                body: "hello",
            };
        },
    }],
})
```

A complete example can be found [here](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/blob/master/nodejs/awsx/examples/api/index.ts).

You can also link a route to an existing Lambda using `aws.lambda.Function.get`.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: aws.lambda.Function.get("example", "your_lambda_id"),
    }],
})
```

Additionally, you can control the Lambda that is created by calling `new aws.lambda.CallbackFunction`.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/",
        method: "GET",
        eventHandler: new aws.lambda.CallbackFunction("test", {
            memorySize: 256,
            callback: async (event) => {
                return {
                    statusCode: 200,
                    body: "<h1>Hello world!</h1>",
                };
            },
        }),
    }],
})
```

#### Static Route

A Static Route is a route that will map to static content in files/directories. You will need to define the local path and then the files (and subdirectories) will be uploaded into S3 objects. If the local path points to a file, you can specify the content-type. Else, the content types for all files in a directory are inferred.

By default, any request on directory will serve index.html. This behavior can be disabled by setting the index field to false.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
    }],
})
```

A complete example can be found [here](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/blob/master/nodejs/awsx/examples/api/index.ts).

### Request Validation

API Gateway can perform basic validations against request parameters, a request payload or both. When a validation fails, a 400 error is returned immediately.

#### Validators

Validators can be assigned at the API level or at the method level. The validators defined at a method level override any validator set at the API level.

You must specify one of the following validators:

* "ALL" - validate both the request body and request parameters
* "BODY_ONLY" - validate only the request body
* "PARAMS_ONLY" - validate only the request parameters

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
        requestValidator: "PARAMS_ONLY",
    }],
    requestValidator: "ALL",
})
```

#### Request Parameters

For each required request parameter, you must define the name and where the parameter is expected (i.e. "path", "query", or "header").

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    routes: [{
        path: "/www",
        localPath: "www",
        index: false,
        requestValidator: "PARAMS_ONLY",
        requiredParams: [{
            name: "key",
            in: "query",
        }]
    }],
})
```

#### Request Body

Request body validation is currently not supported. If you have a strong use case, please comment on this [open issue](https://github.com/pulumi/pulumi-awsx/issues/198).

### Swagger String

You can use a OpenAPI specification that is in string form to initialize the API Gateway. This in a way is an escape hatch for implementing featured not yet supported by Pulumi. You must manually provide permission for any route targets to be invoked by API Gateway when using this option.

```ts
import * as aws from "@pulumi/aws";
import * as awsx from "@pulumi/awsx";

const swaggerSpec = {
    swagger: "2.0",
    info: { title: "api", version: "1.0" },
    ...
};

let endpoint = new awsx.apigateway.API("example", {
    swaggerString: JSON.stringify(swaggerSpec),
    stageName: "dev",
})
```
